[Music]
hundreds of years ago
two hobbits named smeagle and deagle
are fishing when deagle discovers the
one ring in the river
smeagle is mesmerized by the ring and
kills his friend for it
he retreats into the misty mountains as
the ring twists his body and mind
until he becomes the creature gollum
centuries later
during the war of the ring gandalf leads
aragorn
legolas gimli and king theoden
to isengard where they reunite with mary
and pippen
gandalf retrieves the palantir from the
defeated
saruman pippin later looks into the
seeing stone
and is seen by sauron from pippin's
description of his visions
gandalf surmises that sauron will attack
gondor's capital
ministerith he rides there to warn
gondor steward
denethor taking pippin with him
gollum leads frodo beggins and samwise
gamji
to menace morgul where they watch the
witch king of angmar
leader of the nine nazgul lead an army
of orcs towards gondor
the hobbits begin climbing stairs carved
in the cliff face
that leads to a secret tunnel into
mordor unaware that
gollum plans to kill them and take the
ring
the witch king and his forces strike and
overwhelm osgiliath
forcing faramir and his garrison to
retreat
to ministerith gollum secretly disposes
of the hobbit's food
and he blames sam for eating it
believing that sam desires the ring
frodo tells him to go home before he and
gollum continue to the tunnel
leading to mordor gollum tricks him into
venturing into the lair of the giant
spider she-lob
frodo narrowly escapes and confronts
gollum telling him that he must destroy
the ring for both their sakes
gollum attacks frodo but falls down a
chasm
frodo continues on but shelob discovers
paralyzes and binds him sam returns
and injures shelob driving her away but
then hides as orcs appear
and take frodo with them the orcs then
fight over ownership
of frodo's mithril vest allowing sam to
escape with frodo and continue their
journey as king theoden
gathers the rohamir army aragorn learns
from elrond
that arwen is dying having refused to
leave middle-earth to be with aragorn
after seeing a vision of their future
son arwen convinced a reluctant
elrond to order the shards of king
ellendill's sword
narsel to be reforged into anduril
so that aragorn can reclaim his
birthright and gain reinforcements from
the ghostly dead men of dunharrow
joined by legolas and gimli aragorn
travels to the dead men's lair
pledging to release them from isildur's
undead curse
should they come to gondor's aid faramir
is gravely wounded
after a futile effort to recapture
ozgiliath
believing his son to be dead denethor
falls into madness
gandalf is left to defend the city
against the orc army
led by gothmog as gothmog's army forces
its way into the city
denethor attempts to kill himself and
pharamir on a pyre
pippin alerts gandalf and they save
faramir
but a burning denethor leaps to his
death from the top of ministerith
just before theoden and his nephew eomur
arrive with the rohamir during the
ensuing battle
they are overwhelmed by the olyphant
riding haradrim
while the witch king mortally wounds
theodin though theoden's niece eowyn
kills the witch king with mary's help
theoden dies
aragorn arrives with the army of the
dead who overcomes sauron's forces and
win the battle
aragorn then frees the dead men from
their curse
aragorn decides to march upon the black
gate as a distraction
so frodo and sam can reach mount doom
aragorn's army draws out
sauron's remaining forces and empties
mordor
allowing frodo and sam to reach the
volcano but gollum attacks them
just as they reach mount doom as frodo
stands on the ledge over the volcanic
fire
he succumbs to the ring and claims it as
his own
putting it on his finger gollum finds
the invisible frodo and attacks him
biting his finger off to reclaim the
ring frodo attacks gollum
in an attempt to reclaim the ring and in
the ensuing struggle
they both fall off the ledge gollum
falls into the lava with the ring
and dies frodo clings to the side of the
ledge
and is rescued by sam as the ring
disintegrates
into the lava as frodo and sam escape
sauron is destroyed along with his orcs
and nazgul
as mordor crumbles gandalf flies in with
eagles to rescue the hobbits
who awaken in ministerith and are
reunited with the surviving fellowship
aragorn is crowned king of gondor and
takes arwen as his queen
the hobbits return home to the shire
where sam marries rosie cotton
a few years later frodo departs
middle-earth for the undying lands with
his uncle bilbo
gandalf and the elves he leaves sam the
red book of westmarch
which details their adventures sam
returns to the shire
where he embraces rosie and their
children the last words of both the book
and the film are the same well
i'm back
[Music]